To familiarize/help with some CLI and POSH (PowerShell) navigation techniques we have listed some common commands and navigating tools here.

Ways to open the Command Line in Windows:

Start menu’s Run dialog: Open the Run window (by pressing Win + R), type cmd, and press Enter. 

Another way is by typing “Command Prompt” or "cmd" into the Windows search bar, where it will appear as an option. 

##1. Help Commands
Help Commands are very "help"ful (lol)
In all seriousness, the help commands are some of the most powerful tools to have in your toolbox!

###CLI:
The help function is /?
Example: dir /?
  This will give you a help page on the dir command
Example: reg /?
  There are many reg commands. If you happen to forget which one you need but can at least remember it starts with reg you can throw a /? on the end and you will see the options you have now.
  From here you can continue to throw /? onto the end to stairstep your way to what you need

The examples portion is typically a lot of people's favorite area of the help pages because it gives you exact examples with descritions including the syntax and what the line of code is doing
The exmaples will be listed at the bottom of the help pages.
Example: reg query /?
  Scroll to the bottom of the page to see the examples.

###PowerShell
The help function is get-help
Example: get-help get-service
  This will give you a help page on the get-service cmdlet Note: commands in PowerShell are called cmdlets (pronounced commandlets)
The examples portion also exists in POSH. To see the examples you must add -examples on the end of your help command
Example: get-help get-service -examples

There is also an option in POSH that allows you to open the help page in a smaller window that has a find function to search for key terms
Example: get-help get-service -showwindow

##2. Helpful Shortcuts
When typing a command and adding an option to it you can press ctrl + spacebar to see all of your options
Example: (type) get-help get-service - (then press ctrl + spacebar)
  If you are using PowerShell ISE these will populate for you in a dropdown menu

##3. Tab completion:
  When typing commands you are able to type the first portion of the command and press the "tab" key to finish out the rest of the command
Example: (start typing) get-ser (then press tab) you'll see POSH finishes get-service for you
This helps with faster scripting and also with spelling errors. Sometimes we type fast and misspell things that the computer does not recognize. To save yourself trouble just tab complete.
Note: CLI and POSH are not case-sensitive 


Basic CLI Commands:





Basic PowerShell Commands:


